README.md, before:

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Shixzie/nlp?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Shixzie/nlp) 
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Shixzie/nlp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Shixzie/nlp)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Shixzie/nlp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Shixzie/nlp)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Shixzie/nlp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Shixzie/nlp)


# nlp

> `nlp` is a general purpose any-lang Natural Language Processor that parses the data inside a text and returns a filled model

## Supported types
```go
int  int8  int16  int32  int64
uint uint8 uint16 uint32 uint64
float32 float64
string
time.Time
```

## Installation
```
go get github.com/Shixzie/nlp
```

**Go 1.7 or above is required**


**Feel free to create PR's and open Issues :)**

## How it works

You will always begin by creating a NL type calling nlp.New(), the NL type is a 
Natural Language Processor that owns 3 funcs, RegisterModel(), Learn() and P().

### RegisterModel(i interface{}, samples []string) error

RegisterModel takes 2 parameters, an empty struct and a set of samples.

The empty struct lets nlp know all possible values inside the text, for example:
```go
type Song struct {
    Name   string // fields must be exported
    Artist string
}
err := nl.RegisterModel(Song{}, someSamples)
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
// ...
```

tells nlp that inside the text may be a Song.Name and a Song.Artist.

The samples are the key part about nlp, not just because they set the *limits*
between *keywords* but also because they will be used to choose which model 
use to handle an expression.

Samples must have a special syntax to set those *limits* and *keywords*.
```go
songSamples := []string{
	"play {Name} by {Artist}",
	"play {Name} from {Artist}",
	"play {Name}",
	"from {Artist} play {Name}",
}
```

In the example below, you can see we're reffering to the Name and Artist fields
of the `Song` type declared above, both `{Name}` and `{Artist}` are our *keywords* 
and yes! you guessed it! Everything between `play` and `by` will be treated as a
`{Name}`, and everything that's after `by` will be treated as an `{Artist}` meaning 
that `play` and `by` are our *limits*.
```
     limits
 ┌─────┴─────┐
┌┴─┐        ┌┴┐
play {Name} by  {Artist}
     └─┬──┘     └───┬──┘
       └──────┬─────┘
           keywords
```

Any character can be a *limit*, a `,` for example can be used as a limit.

*keywords* as well as *limits* are `CaseSensitive` so be sure to type them right.

**Note that putting 2 *keywords* together will cause that only 1 or none of them will be detected**

> *limits are important* - Me :3


### Learn() error

Learn maps all models samples to their respective models using the NaiveBayes 
algorithm based on those samples. `Learn()` also trains all registered models
so they're able to fit expressions in the future.

```go
// must call after all models are registrated and before calling nl.P()
err := nl.Learn() 
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
// ...
```

Once the algorithm has finished learning, we're now ready to start Processing 
those texts.

**Note that you must call NL.Learn() after all models are registrated and before calling NL.P()**

### P(expr string) interface{}

P first asks the trained algorithm which model should be used, once we get
the right *and already trained* model, we just make it fit the expression.

**Note that everything in the expression must be separated by a _space_ or _tab_**

When processing an expression, nlp searches for the *limits* inside that 
expression and evaluates which sample fits better the expression, it doesn't
matter if the text has `trash`. In this example:
```
     limits
 ┌─────┴─────┐
┌┴─┐        ┌┴┐
play {Name} by  {Artist}
     └─┬──┘     └───┬──┘
       └──────┬─────┘
           keywords
```

we have 2 *limits*, `play` and `by`, it doesn't matter if we had an expression 
*hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by Lauren Aquilina*, since:
```
                                  limits
            trash              ┌────┴────┐
┌─────────────┴─────────────┐ ┌┴─┐      ┌┴┐
hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by  Lauren Aquilina
                                   └┬─┘     └─────┬───────┘
                                 {Name}       {Artist}
                                 └─┬──┘       └───┬──┘
                                   └──────┬───────┘
                                       keywords
```

`{Name}` would be replaced with `King`, 
`{Artist}` would be replaced with `Lauren Aquilina`, 
`trash` would be ignored as well as the *limits* `play` and `by`, 
and then **a pointer to a filled struct with the type used to register the model** (`Song`) 
( `Song.Name` being `{Name}` and `Song.Artist` beign `{Artist}` ) 
**will be returned**.

## Usage

```go
type Song struct {
	Name   string
	Artist string
}

songSamples := []string{
	"play {Name} by {Artist}",
	"play {Name} from {Artist}",
	"play {Name}",
	"from {Artist} play {Name}",
}

nl := nlp.New()
err := nl.RegisterModel(Song{}, songSamples)
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

err = nl.Learn() // you must call Learn after all models are registered and before calling P
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

// after learning you can call P the times you want
s := nl.P("hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by Lauren Aquilina") 
if song, ok := s.(*Song); ok {
	fmt.Println("Success")
	fmt.Printf("%#v\n", song)
} else {
	fmt.Println("Failed")
}

// Prints
//
// Success
// &main.Song{Name: "King", Artist: "Lauren Aquilina"}
```

### LICENSE

Copyright 2017 Juan Álvarez

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

added some documentation about the tim.Time type

README.md, after:

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Shixzie/nlp?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Shixzie/nlp) 
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Shixzie/nlp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Shixzie/nlp)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Shixzie/nlp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Shixzie/nlp)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Shixzie/nlp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Shixzie/nlp)


# nlp

> `nlp` is a general purpose any-lang Natural Language Processor that parses the data inside a text and returns a filled model

## Supported types
```go
int  int8  int16  int32  int64
uint uint8 uint16 uint32 uint64
float32 float64
string
time.Time
```

## Installation
```
go get github.com/Shixzie/nlp
```

**Go 1.7 or above is required**


**Feel free to create PR's and open Issues :)**

## How it works

You will always begin by creating a NL type calling nlp.New(), the NL type is a 
Natural Language Processor that owns 3 funcs, RegisterModel(), Learn() and P().

### RegisterModel(i interface{}, samples []string, ops ...ModelOption) error

RegisterModel takes 3 parameters, an empty struct, a set of samples and some options for the model.

The empty struct lets nlp know all possible values inside the text, for example:
```go
type Song struct {
    Name        string // fields must be exported
    Artist      string
    ReleasedAt  time.Time
}
err := nl.RegisterModel(Song{}, someSamples, nlp.WithTimeFormat("2006"))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
// ...
```

tells nlp that inside the text may be a Song.Name, a Song.Artist and a Song.ReleasedAt.

The samples are the key part about nlp, not just because they set the *limits*
between *keywords* but also because they will be used to choose which model 
use to handle an expression.

Samples must have a special syntax to set those *limits* and *keywords*.
```go
songSamples := []string{
	"play {Name} by {Artist}",
	"play {Name} from {Artist}",
	"play {Name}",
	"from {Artist} play {Name}",
    "play something from {ReleasedAt}",
}
```

In the example below, you can see we're reffering to the Name and Artist fields
of the `Song` type declared above, both `{Name}` and `{Artist}` are our *keywords* 
and yes! you guessed it! Everything between `play` and `by` will be treated as a
`{Name}`, and everything that's after `by` will be treated as an `{Artist}` meaning 
that `play` and `by` are our *limits*.
```
     limits
 ┌─────┴─────┐
┌┴─┐        ┌┴┐
play {Name} by  {Artist}
     └─┬──┘     └───┬──┘
       └──────┬─────┘
           keywords
```

Any character can be a *limit*, a `,` for example can be used as a limit.

*keywords* as well as *limits* are `CaseSensitive` so be sure to type them right.

**Note that putting 2 *keywords* together will cause that only 1 or none of them will be detected**

> *limits are important* - Me :3


### Learn() error

Learn maps all models samples to their respective models using the NaiveBayes 
algorithm based on those samples. `Learn()` also trains all registered models
so they're able to fit expressions in the future.

```go
// must call after all models are registrated and before calling nl.P()
err := nl.Learn() 
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
// ...
```

Once the algorithm has finished learning, we're now ready to start Processing 
those texts.

**Note that you must call NL.Learn() after all models are registrated and before calling NL.P()**

### P(expr string) interface{}

P first asks the trained algorithm which model should be used, once we get
the right *and already trained* model, we just make it fit the expression.

**Note that everything in the expression must be separated by a _space_ or _tab_**

When processing an expression, nlp searches for the *limits* inside that 
expression and evaluates which sample fits better the expression, it doesn't
matter if the text has `trash`. In this example:
```
     limits
 ┌─────┴─────┐
┌┴─┐        ┌┴┐
play {Name} by  {Artist}
     └─┬──┘     └───┬──┘
       └──────┬─────┘
           keywords
```

we have 2 *limits*, `play` and `by`, it doesn't matter if we had an expression 
*hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by Lauren Aquilina*, since:
```
                                  limits
            trash              ┌────┴────┐
┌─────────────┴─────────────┐ ┌┴─┐      ┌┴┐
hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by  Lauren Aquilina
                                   └┬─┘     └─────┬───────┘
                                 {Name}       {Artist}
                                 └─┬──┘       └───┬──┘
                                   └──────┬───────┘
                                       keywords
```

`{Name}` would be replaced with `King`, 
`{Artist}` would be replaced with `Lauren Aquilina`, 
`trash` would be ignored as well as the *limits* `play` and `by`, 
and then **a pointer to a filled struct with the type used to register the model** (`Song`) 
( `Song.Name` being `{Name}` and `Song.Artist` beign `{Artist}` ) 
**will be returned**.

## Usage

```go
type Song struct {
	Name       string
	Artist     string
    ReleasedAt time.Time
}

songSamples := []string{
	"play {Name} by {Artist}",
	"play {Name} from {Artist}",
	"play {Name}",
	"from {Artist} play {Name}",
    "play something from {ReleasedAt}",
}

nl := nlp.New()
err := nl.RegisterModel(Song{}, songSamples, nlp.WithTimeFormat("2006"))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

err = nl.Learn() // you must call Learn after all models are registered and before calling P
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

// after learning you can call P the times you want
s := nl.P("hello sir can you pleeeeeease play King by Lauren Aquilina") 
if song, ok := s.(*Song); ok {
	fmt.Println("Success")
	fmt.Printf("%#v\n", song)
} else {
	fmt.Println("Failed")
}

// Prints
//
// Success
// &main.Song{Name: "King", Artist: "Lauren Aquilina"}
```

### LICENSE

Copyright 2017 Juan Álvarez

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
